You walk warily along a short, well-lit
corridor. You stop at an imposing door ahead
of you: but when you push, it swings open,
and you move through to find yourself in a
spacious, airy room, furnished with ornate
wall-hangings, and row upon row of books.

You go over and look at the books – they are
all Books of Spells, or Instructions in Magick,
and you are feeling pleased with this find
when a movement of the air makes you turn
around quickly. Sitting in a large, ornately
carved chair is a fierce-looking old man, clad
in long flowing robes. He has very long hair
and a long beard. You draw your sword – he
glares, utters a few words – and your sword
turns to rubber in your hand!

“Put that away, Adventurer,” he commands, “it will return to normal, soon.” You
do as he tells you, realising that you are facing
a powerful Wizard. Could this be Belenghast?

“I know of your quest, Stranger,” says the
Wizard, “but I am not the one you seek.
However,” he smiles, “I may allow you to
continue.”

From his flowing robes, he takes out a
leather bag and shakes it. It makes a dull
rattling sound.

“A small test of reasoning,” he explains. “If
you are right, you will – perhaps – be fortunate. 
If you are wrong, less so.” He shakes the
bag again.

“I have in this bag,” he tells you, “some
black stones, and an equal number of white
ones. Now, if you were to put your hand in
and take some, you could not know in
advance how many would be white, and how
many black.

You can work out, I’m sure,” he continues,
“what is the smallest number of stones you
should take from the bag in order to be certain
of getting two of the same colour. However,
my question is this: the smallest number of
stones you must take from the bag to be
certain of getting two of the same colour is the
same as the number you must take out to be
certain of getting two of a different colour. How
many stones are in the bag?”

You hesitate, and he continues: “Your
Potions of Magic will not work in this room, so
do not waste them. There are three doors
behind me. They have on them the numbers 4,
6, and 8. When you have decided on the
answer to my little puzzle, go out through the
door with that number on it.”

Will you take the door marked:

- 4? [Turn to 100](100)
- 6? [Turn to 80](80)
- 8? [Turn to 67](67)
