Stasis Units

a serendipitous offshoot of hyperdrive development was the
stasis phenomenon. Stasis appears to stop time within a very
restricted volume. The stasis unit is a device turned out
manually, or by an automatic trigger (activated when
hyperspace dissipation occurs, for example).

When a stasis unit is turned on, it stops time inside the unit.
As a result, it cannot be turned off from within! To turn it off,
one must put the unit inside another stasis unit, and reverse the
field. Both stasis units are consumed, and whatever was inside
the smaller now returns to normal time.

A person inside a stasis and then freed will complete the
breath he or she was drawing when stasis began, a cup of
coffee that was being spilled will continue its motion, the coffee
still hot, etc.

Due to the cost of stasis units and the ability to determine
what is inside an active unit, few people can meet the cost of
deactivating a unit by using up a larger one — unless they
expect large rewards. Accordingly, an insurance network has
been formed to guarantee deactivation after the destruction of
an insured ship. Of course, anyone who gets to the stasis unit
first can risk opening it without insurance, if they believe it
contains valuable items, or a person who brings a good ransom.
Crewmen hire on at lower rates if they can work in stasis units
with insurance, since their life has an effective protection.
If you (Duke Springer) are in an activated stasis unit, unless
the event indicates otherwise consult [r240](r240) for the result. If you
find an activated stasis unit, you may open it by purchasing or
having a unit 1 CU larger, and when the larger is activated
around the smaller both are lost to recover the contents within
the smaller. Stasis units cannot be used to surround and protect
a starship: use of hyperdrive jump inside one causes a massive
explosion -so much for the navy's attempt to use stasis
protection for their warships!
