Marlock City is a huge sprawling metropolis, enclosed in a
fortified wall said to have been built one thousand years ago by
the ancient Shadar Empire. It is the capital city of Sokara.
Marlock City was once known as Sokar, until General Grieve
Marlock led the army in bloody revolt against the old king,
Corin VII, and had him executed. The general renamed the city
after himself – it is now a crime to call it Sokar.

The general lives in the old king’s palace, and calls himself
the Protector-General of all Sokara. Whereas the old king was
corrupt, the general rules with a fist of iron. Some people like
the new regime; others are royalists, still loyal to Nergan, the
heir to the throne, who has gone into hiding somewhere.

Outside the city gates hang the bodies of many dead people
– labels around their necks read: ‘Rebels, executed by the state
for the good of the people’.

‘You’d best behave yourself if you don’t want to end up like
one of them,’ grates a guardsman, nodding towards the swinging
corpses, as you pass through the great eagle-headed gates of
Marlock City.

You can [buy a town house](!buy-house!200) in Marlock City for 200 Shards.
Owning a house gives you a place to rest, and to store
equipment. If you buy one, cross off 200 Shards and tick the
box by the town house option.

To leave Marlock City by sea, or to buy or sell ships and
cargo, go the harbourmaster.

[Visit the Three Rings Tavern](158)

[Visit the temple of Alvir and Valmir](154)

[Visit the temple of Nagil](71)

[Visit the temple of Sig](235)

[Visit the temple of Elnir](568)

[Visit the market](396)

[Visit the harbourmaster](142)

[Go to the merchants’ guild](571)

[Explore the city](138)

[Visit your town house](!visit-house!434)

[Visit the House of Priests](535)

[Visit the general’s palace](601)

[Travel east towards Trefoille](377)

[Head south-east towards the Shadar Tor](166)

[Follow the River Grimm north](99)

[Journey north into the Curstmoor](175)

[Head west to the River Grimm delta](579)
